# SimuSageTSL
PROGRAM SOURCE CODE FOR A SIMUSAGE MODEL OF THE TSL PROCESS

The files in this repository correspond to the Simusage source code of the model described in the
publication "A dynamic thermochemistry-based process model for lead smelting in the TSL process"
(JSM, https://doi.org/10.1007/s40831-021-00387-7). The computational model is able to describe the evolution in time of the phases formed
in the different regions of the reactor as a function of the material inputs and of the process parameters.
The model is designed in such a way to simulate the reactions occurring in the oxidation stage of the TSL
process as applied to the extraction of lead from a lead sulfide concentrate. The modelling approach is also
applicable to other sulfidic ores like e.g. copper and zinc ores.

The model was developed and the executable files were generated by using the software Simusage, inside the 
the Lazarus open-source development environment. Simusage is a tool for rapid process modelling according 
to a flowsheeting approach and based on the ChemApp software.

Following program versions apply:

a) Lazarus 2.0.0
b) Simusage 1.20.0
c) ChemApp Version 720

The program consists of the following modules/files:

tsl_oxid.lfm: Lazarus Form File
tsl_oxid.pas: Pascal Source Code File
TSLOxidation_v2_111119.ico: Icon File
TSLOxidation_v2_111119.lpi: Lazarus Project Information File
TSLOxidation_v2_111119.lpr: Lazarus Project Main Source File

Please notice that you need a valid Simusage installation to run the program. Please also notice that
you need a "thermochemical data file" (*.cst file) and a "Simusage stream definition file"(*.ssd file) to run 
the model. These files can be constructed with the information supplied in the published paper and as long as 
you have access to FactSage and to the following thermochemical databases:

FactPS: FACT pure substances database
FToxid: FACT oxide database
FTmisc: FACT sulfide, alloy, miscellaneous databases
SGPS: SGTE pure substances database

If you have access to Simusage and you need help in making the model work and/or in defining the *.cst 
and *.ssd files please make contact with GTT-Technologies by email (info@gtt-technologies.de).

License and Acknowledgments

SimuSageTSL is licensed under the GNU AGPL v3.0 license.

If you use SimusageTSL in your scientific work, please consider citing

@article{rezende_dynamic_2021,
	title = {A {Dynamic} {Thermochemistry}-{Based} {Process} {Model} for {Lead} {Smelting} in the {TSL} {Process}},
	issn = {2199-3831},
	url = {https://doi.org/10.1007/s40831-021-00387-7},
	doi = {10.1007/s40831-021-00387-7},
	journal = {Journal of Sustainable Metallurgy},
	author = {Rezende, J. and van Schalkwyk, R. F. and Reuter, M. A. and to Baben, M.},
	month = jun,
	year = {2021},
}
